# File Inclusion
- The most common place we usually find LFI within is templating engines. In order to have most of the web application looking the same when navigating between pages, a templating engine displays a page that shows the common static parts, such as the header, navigation bar, and footer, and then dynamically loads other content that changes between pages. Otherwise, every page on the server would need to be modified when changes are made to any of the static parts. This is why we often see a parameter like /index.php?page=about, where index.php sets static content (e.g. header/footer), and then only pulls the dynamic content specified in the parameter, which in this case may be read from a file called about.php.
- they all share one common thing: loading a file from a specified path.
- For example, the page may have a ?language GET parameter, and if a user changes the language from a drop-down menu, then the same page would be returned but with a different language parameter (e.g. ?language=es). In such cases, changing the language may change the directory the web application is loading the pages from (e.g. /en/ or /es/).
- Reminder: `Missing parameters` error message? add ?[then the parameters] to the url
- Regardless of the langauge, the most important thing to keep in mind is that some of the above functions only read the content of the specified files, while others also execute the specified files. Furthermore, some of them allow specifying remote URLs, while others only work with files local to the back-end server. 

This is a significant difference to note, as executing files may allow us to execute functions and eventually lead to code execution, while only reading the file's content would only let us to read the source code without code execution. 
